
h1. bit.ly api client built in java

p. This is a simple java client for the "bit.ly v3 api":http://dev.bitly.com/api.html. It is:

* small
* easy to use
* built by apache maven
* with a minimum of dependencies
* and for now a **work in progress**
* licensed under the apache license 2.0

h2. get started right away

h3. step 1: get an oauth access token

p. There is one prerequisite: you need to obtain an oauth access token from bit.ly (which also requires you to "have an account with bit.ly":https://bitly.com/a/sign_up and "register an app in the dev center":http://bitly.com/a/settings/advanced). You can do this with "scribe-java":https://github.com/fernandezpablo85/scribe-java but bit.ly support is not yet available. I made a fork of the scribe project and added bit.ly support. A pull request is currently pending. In the mean time: use my fork (or just the @BitlyApi@ class from it) which is available here: "https://github.com/stackmagic/scribe-java":https://github.com/stackmagic/scribe-java

h3. step 2: check out the integration tests

p. There are a bunch of integration tests that you can run and look at to get an idea of how this stuff works. The tests are all matching @**/*IntegrationTest.java@ inside @src/test/java@.

p. In order to run the integration tests you must put your access token into a file with a single line and no leading or trailing spaces named @.accesstoken@ inside the project's root directory.

p. Please note that some of the integration tests may fail for you since you don't have the correct access token and so you'll end up trying to manipulate some of "my" links which will of course fail, at least it should.

h3. step 3: get cracking (fluent builders)

p. The basic principle is simple: You create a BitlyClient with your access token. This is your factory and can be reused and passed around instead of passing around the access token String. Let the @BitlyClient@ create a @RequestBuilder@ for you and configure it, then make the call to bitly and work with the response. Simple, right? So here goes:

bc.. BitlyClient client = new BitlyClient("... the access token ...")
Response<ShortUrl> respShort = client.shorten() //
                                     .longUrl("https://github.com/stackmagic/bitly-api-client") //
                                     .call();

p. This simple 2-liner (newlines added for readability) shortens a link for you! If you do just a few calls or feeld more comfortable with passing the access token instead of the @BitlyClient@ instance around, you can instantiate the @RequestBuilder@ specializations directly. So above example would become this: 

bc.. Response<ShortUrl> respShort = new ShortenRequestBuilder("... the access token ...") //
                               .longUrl("https://github.com/stackmagic/bitly-api-client") //
                               .call();

p. And it's a 1-liner (but less pretty IMO).

h3. step 3: get cracking (traditional style)

p. If you don't like fluent builders the above example can also be written like this:

bc.. ShortenRequestBuilder builder = new ShortenRequestBuilder("... the access token ...")
builder.longUrl("https://github.com/stackmagic/bitly-api-client");
Response<ShortUrl> respShort = builder.call();

h3. step 3: working with the response object

p. The @Response<T>@ is a container that contains 3 important fields:

* status_code
* status_txt
* data

p. The @data@ field contains the actual response information of type @T@. It is possible, that the @data@ field is null. As of now, it is your obligation to check the status_code and act accordingly. No exceptions are thrown if an error response is received. "The meaning of the status_code":http://dev.bitly.com/formats.html is well documented by bitly.

h2. roadmap

p. right now this project is a rough skeleton. the api style is pretty much defined unless some unexpected special case comes up. the next most important steps are:

* distinguish between single and multi occurrence parameters. some endpoints allow batching, this is not yet implemented in the request builder.
** eliminate duplicate values. eg ?url=a&url=a should be collapsed into a sinlge url=a
** include api limits (e.g. a paramter x may only be added 15 times for batching)
* implement the full api
* set up a maven repo (possibly combined with my scribe-java fork)
* add some javadoc
* throw exceptions when there is a @status_code@ that doesn't equal 200? make this optional (eg call() and callWithException()?)
* add some debugging output (what's the smallest logging api in terms of size and further dependencies?)
* need to cleanup the model package(s) and model class name(s) but the api is kind of a mess with 2 and 3 level deep links so how do I name stuff? especially the response objects

h2. questions / bugs

p. Feel free to raise a bug or question here: "https://github.com/stackmagic/bitly-api-client/issues":https://github.com/stackmagic/bitly-api-client/issues

